.TH SHELLY 1 "March 2026" "1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
shelly \- command-line libalpm utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shelly
.RI [ OPTIONS ] " <COMMAND>"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Shelly is a comand-line interface for managing system packages,
syncronizing databases, and performing system maintenance tasks. 
It provides functionality similar to traditional package managers 
with extended support for AUR and Flatpak.


.\" After this point, there should be information on every command available to shelly.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B version
Display the application version.

.TP
.B sync
.br
Synchronize package databases.

.TP
.BI list-installed
List all installed packages.

.TP
.B list-available
List all available packages.

.TP
.B list-updates
List packages that need updates.

.TP
.BI "info " "<packages>"
Display information about a package.

.TP
.BI "install " "<packages>"
Install one or more packages.

.TP
.B install-local
Install a local package file (.xz, .gz, .zst).

.TP
.B "remove " "<packages>"
Remove one or more packages.

.TP
.BI "update " "<packages>"
Update one or more packages.

.TP
.B upgrade
Perform a full system upgrade.

.TP
.BI "downgrade " "<packages>"
Downgrade one or more packages.

.TP
.B keyring
Manage pacman keyring.

.TP
.B aur
.br
Manage AUR packages.

.TP
.B flatpak
Manage Flatpak packages.

.TP
.B utility
Execute Shelly utility commands.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -h, --help
Print help information.

.TP
.B -v, --version
Print version information.

.TP
.B -j, --json
Output results in JSON format for UI integration and scripting.

.TP
.B -y, --sync
Synchronize package databases before performing the operation.

.TP
.B -f, --force
Force the operation, even if it would normally be skipped or blocked.

.TP
.B -n, --no-confirm
Proceed without asking for user confirmation .

.SH AUR OPTIONS

.TP
.BI  "install-version " "<package> <commit>"
Install a specific version of an AUR package build by commit hash.

.TP
.BI "get-package-build " "<packages>"
Get package build details.

.SH FLATPAK OPTIONS

.TP
.B running
List all running flatpak apps.

.TP
.BI "run " "<package>"
Run flatpak app.

.TP
.BI "kill " "<package>"
Kill running flatpak app.

.TP
.B sync-remote-appstream
Sync remote appstream.

.TP
.B get-remote-appstream
Returns remote appstream JSON.


.\" Now, some examples to finish the explanation - This needs some work still

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
Display the current application version:
.RS
.B shelly version
.RE

.PP
Update all packages in the system.
.RS
.B shelly upgrade
.RE

.PP
Update all packages in the system, including AUR and Flatpak.
.RS
.B shelly upgrade -a
.RE

.PP
Synchronize package databases:
.RS
.B shelly sync
.RE

.PP
List all installed packages:
.RS
.B shelly list-installed
.RE

.PP
List installed packages sorted by name:
.RS
.BR shelly " list-installed --sort name"
.RE


.\" Finishing with author information
.SH AUTHORS
Zoey Bauer <https://github.com/ZoeyErinBauer>
.br
Caroline Snyder <https://github.com/caroberrie>
.PP
This manual page was written by: Vinícius Fonseca <https://github.com/VinnyQF>







